movies in short here
today i will explain a 2020 action drama
movie called writers of justice a
strange and surprisingly funny revenge
flick starring a heart as nails mads
mikkelsen that shows us the dangers of
confirmation bias
sit back relax and enjoy in the opening
scene in tallinn estonia an old man and
his young niece are looking at a red
bicycle as a possible christmas gift
the girl says she would prefer to wait
for a blue bicycle instead
the old man tells her that nothing is
certain in life and that christmas is a
long time away
as they leave the bicycle dealer makes a
phone call to order a blue bicycle on
the black market
we cut to a train station in denmark
where a white van stops next to a blue
bicycle which belongs to matild that is
chained to a post two hooded men get out
cut the chain put the bicycle into the
van and drive away
next we cut to marcus hansen a soldier
in afghanistan
he calls his wife emma who tells him
that their daughter's blue bicycle was
stolen at the train station
emma also mentions that the family car
won't start
marcus tells emma that he has been
ordered to stay in afghanistan for
another three months
emma and matilde decide to walk to the
train station
we now follow otto hoffman and leonard
gerner nielsen at their work
they are busy presenting a seemingly
worthless algorithm that they claim can
be used to predict future events
otto says that all events are products
of a series of preceding events but
because we often have insufficient data
we categorize these events as
coincidences
their bosses aren't impressed with how
long it has taken them or how much their
research has cost the company to get to
this conclusion
they are fired and pack up their
personal things before they leave
as otto rides the train home he notices
a tattooed man in the same car
he watches another man throw a sandwich
and a drink into the trash before he
exits the train as matild and emma board
the train is crowded so otto offers his
seat to emma
the train then slams into another train
which rakes the right side of the train
car
otto regains consciousness to see the
wreckage around him
back in afghanistan marcus is informed
that his wife has died in the train
accident
otto is at the hospital receiving
treatment for his injuries
on his way out he sees a grief stricken
matild receiving counselling
marcus is released from duty in
afghanistan and is flown home
otto goes back to his apartment and
watches the news report on the train
crash which is ruled as an accident
the news confirms that 11 people have
died in the accident
the man with the tattoo that otto saw on
the train as well as his lawyer are two
of the deceased
he was a former bike gang member called
johann the eagle origin
he was about to testify against his
former gang the writers of justice and
their leader kurt tandem olsen regarding
a high-profile homicide case
marcus arrives back from afghanistan and
goes to the hospital to see matild
he tries to console his grieving
daughter
otto approaches the authorities to
discuss the probability that the train
accident was not an accident according
to statistics he mentions that both
eagle and his lawyer dying 13 days
before they were due to testify is
highly unlikely according to the numbers
the men thank him for stopping by but do
not think the man from the train who
threw the food and drink into the trash
is relevant to the accident
at their home matilda and marcus find it
difficult to come to terms with the
tragedy causing a strain in their
relationship
otto meets with leonard to discuss
otto's theory that the train crash was
not an accident
otto asks leonard if he can hack into
the server of the chain of gyms called
fitness world to find information on the
eagles habits
otto states that the eagle is a
methodical person who works out every
day
they need to establish that he uses the
same treadmill each time
if so he probably sits in the same train
seat every day
this would indicate that kurt the
motorcycle gang leader would know where
to target him on the train
leonard agrees to help
marcus and matilda attend emma's funeral
service
later that evening a tearful matild
questions whether her mother's death was
a coincidence or not
marcus tries his best to comfort her
amidst his own grief
otto and leonard drive to marcus's home
they introduced themselves and otto
tells him that he was on the same train
as emma and matild
otto informs marcus that the train
accident wasn't a coincidence
it was probably a planned murder to
eliminate a key witness about to give
evidence against the head of the writers
of justice motorcycle gang
marcus invites them inside to continue
the discussion
otto shows marcus the detailed
information on the eagle that leonard
got from hacking fitness world
the eagles criminal record shows six
cases of assault on various train lines
he always sat in the second row in the
second carriage
otto tells marcus there was another man
on the train who had thrown his food and
drink into the trash before getting off
emma and matild had then boarded
this man had been at osterport station
the previous night and had free access
to the parked freight train which later
hit the passenger train
otto says the man in the photograph is
the key
they just need to find out who he is
as they leave otto and leonard decide to
approach olfa mentholer who is an expert
using software for facial recognition
marcus joins matild at the hospital
where they are offered therapy to deal
with their grief
matild says she thinks that it is a good
idea but marcus declines
later that evening marcus is angry that
matilda is home late and does not answer
his calls
he finally hears her arrive and shouts
at her to go inside
her boyfriend sirius tells him not to
use that tone with her
marcus punches him and matild runs
towards the house telling marcus that he
is insane
sirius drives away on his motorcycle
marcus stands outside matild's locked
bedroom door and apologizes to her for
his behavior matilda is compiling her
own notes on the sequence of events from
the day of the train crash as she
continues to question whether it was a
coincidence or not
the following day otto and leonard go to
a mentholer's apartment telling him that
they need his help with a murder case
they wait as a mentholer uses facial
recognition software to identify the
suspicious man who left the train
seconds before the accident
he is an egyptian from cairo and is the
only match above the 99.12 biometrical
marker threshold limit
otto asks him to lower the threshold of
facial recognition to 95 and to look for
matches with danish addresses
the person with the highest percentage
match in denmark is paul olison
otto says he recognizes him from the
train
back at marcus's home matilda is still
very angry with him for punching her
boyfriend
marcus tries to make amends and suggests
that matilda invites sirius for dinner
otto leonard and a mentholer go to see
marcus
they tell marcus that pal oleson is the
brother of kurt tandem oleson president
of writers of justice
pal is a trained electrical engineer who
specializes in trained components the
tattooed man in the train who was also
killed in the wreck was about to testify
against him
the group goes to pal's house
they intend to interrogate him for
information about the accident
powell pulls a gun on them
they start to leave but as they reach
their car marcus turns back towards the
house
pal opens the door brandishing his gun
marcus loses control and kills powell
leonard enters the house and calls a
mentholer to help him to dispose of the
evidence
he then tells marcus and otto to wait in
the car
leonard searches for cleaning materials
when he sees a ukrainian man modasha
naked and gagged he says nothing and
leaves him there
he rejoins the others in the car
they drive marcus back to his home
as he walks up the driveway he sees a
motorcycle which belongs to mattel's
boyfriend sirius
marcus greets him and apologizes to him
sirius says he understands as he knows
they're going through a difficult time
matilda and sirius tried to convince
marcus to speak to a crisis psychologist
about his grief and violent behavior but
he refuses
he sees on the news that kurt olson was
acquitted on all charges because the
witness the eagle died in the train
crash
the reporters are confused as to why
kurt is celebrating considering his
brother has just been murdered
he tells them that pal would have wanted
him to celebrate that justice has
prevailed
marcus summons otto leonard and a mentor
to the barn
he tells them to get all the information
they can find about the writers of
justice
he plans to avenge his wife's death
otto agrees to get the information but
says he won't kill anybody
matild sees marcus and the group of men
leaving the barn together she recognizes
otto as the man on the train and
questions her father as to who the men
are
leonard lies to her saying that they are
a therapy group attempting to help him
with his trauma
leonard offers to be matild's therapist
he has seen 25 psychologists in 40 years
and knows all the terminology
matild pours her heart out to him saying
she feels nothing and is sad every day
the writers torture bodashka for
information
he tells them he only remembers seeing
one man who was well dressed
he heard the man calling to a man named
dementler
back at marcus barn a mentholer is
attempting to set up the computers
complaining that if anything gets his
blood boiling its monitors with bad
resolution
they go back into the house where a
mentholer continues to rant about the
computer's small processors
he demands that they collect his servers
and monitors from his apartment
immediately
leonard who is counseling matild is
offended by a mentholer's bad behavior
calling him an arrogant diva
matild says something's not right to
sirius as they watch the group of men
leave to collect the monitors
as they drive to the apartment leonard
tells marcus there is nothing
embarrassing about him needing trauma
counselling
marcus is angry and tells them not to
say another word
the writers are waiting outside a
mentholer's apartment and when they see
the group arrive they force bodashka to
identify him
the riders shoot at the group as they
approach the front door
marcus runs to the one attacker takes
his weapon from him and kills the other
riders
leonard begs marcus not to kill bodashka
who is sitting handcuffed in the car
they rescue him and take him with them
marcus has collected all of the
attacker's automatic weapons
leonard reassures bodashka that they
will not kill him and removes his
handcuffs
they all return to marcus's house to
hide from the rest of the riders of
justice who are looking for them
ementhaler says he is able to use
leonard's computers although it will be
difficult on his useless hardware
the group demands weapons training if
they are to continue
marcus tells a mentholer to get the
equipment up and running and then he
will train them
using sticky notes mathilde has made a
timeline on her bedroom wall of events
relating to her mother's death
she gradually works her way back to the
day her bike was stolen at the train
station
the following morning bodashka now
seemingly a part of the family gives
matilda's gold chain and tells her she
is beautiful
he gives her a packed lunch and wishes
her a good day at school
marcus otto leonard and amentler are in
the barn discussing their revenge for
the 22 remaining writers
marcus warns them that as soon as the
gang realize that they are under attack
it will be harder to get to kurt
ementhaler tells him that kurt is never
alone and always has at least 10 men
with him when leonard suggests that they
attack the riders at their clubhouse a
mentholer goes to the computer and shows
them how the clubhouse is under constant
surveillance by the police and danish
intelligence
marcus takes the group into the woods to
start their weapons training
he is impressed with the speed and
accuracy that a mentor displays when
assembling his weapon and asks if he has
any previous military experience
he tells marcus he has no training he
just likes assembling things
much later that day immenseler tells the
group in the barn that kurt and a group
of 12 men will be going to a restaurant
called entorini at the docks at seven
that night ementhaler tells marcus that
he can come with him and explains a
strategy for their plan to succeed
he is nervous but happy when marcus
agrees
a mantler goes into the house to call
leonard and otto who are having dinner
with matild sirius and bodashka he tells
them that they need to leave immediately
and that marcus will explain everything
to them in the car
as they travel towards the restaurant
otto repeatedly questions marcus about
the way he speaks to matild
marcus warns him to stop talking and
when otto continues marcus punches him
and leaves him on the side of the road
as they drive away leonard tells marcus
that otto's daughter died in a car
accident when he hit a tree in 2002
the accident permanently damaged otto's
arm
they arrive at the restaurant and see
kirk greeting three of the gang members
marcus tells a mentholer to get ready
and leonard to stay in the car
more people emerge from the restaurant
including a few biker girls that they
did not expect to see
they remain in their car as the girls
walk away from the restaurant and kurt
drives away
marcus and the mentholer run down the
road along the side of the parked cars
and marcus opens fire on some of the
gang members
marcus manages to kill the man on his
own
ementhaler apologizes to marcus for
lagging behind and for being incapable
of killing the man who lay on the ground
in front of him
as otto regains consciousness and walks
back to the house marcus sees him and
stops the car on his way home to give
him a ride back
the following morning auto goes to speak
to matilda in her room he sees matild's
wall with the detailed timeline of the
events that led to her mother's death in
the train wreck
otto tells her it will never make sense
to her and thinking about it further
will just be a waste of time
back at the barn odashka explains to
leonard that pal was definitely not on
the train that crashed
pal and bodashko were together in
germany at the time
they flew back and landed on the monday
after the incident
leonard goes to check the facial
recognition result again and is shocked
otto had convinced a mentholer to accept
a less accurate facial recognition
result
the suspicious man on the train was
actually an innocent egyptian tourist
who resembled powell immensely says that
statistically it is nearly impossible
but the evidence they had relied on to
prove that it was not an accident was
based on a simple coincidence that the
two men resembled each other
their crusade against the riders of
justice was committed in error
upon learning this marcus leaves the
barn and goes to the bathroom in his
house
he finally breaks down due his ongoing
grief anger and frustration
otto goes to comfort and console him as
marcus lies crying on the floor of the
bathroom he has broken in his anger
later that evening otto tells marcus
that he has to get help to deal with
emma's death as he has a responsibility
to mathilde otto says he misses his
daughter every day and has nothing to be
proud of but marcus still does
otto continues saying he wishes that he
was marcus
he tells him to build a relationship
with matild and that it will take time
before it all makes sense
that night as sirius walks towards his
motorcycle he is attacked by the riders
who threaten to break his fingers unless
he tells them otto's whereabouts
marcus hears a noise and runs from the
barn towards the house as the riders
open fire on the group
he tells mattel to run to her room and
stay under the bed
otto and leonard are injured
marcus is badly wounded
he sends leonard to collect the
dismantled guns stored at the foot of
the stairs
the riders enter the house
matilda is discovered under her bed and
taken hostage
marcus is called to the door where he
sees mathilde being held outside at
gunpoint
he drops his weapons
otto leonard emmenthaler and badashka
ambush and kill the writers
marcus comforts matild who has been shot
and carries her to a tree where he sinks
to the ground
she tells him the ambulance is on its
way
marcus apologizes to matild and says
that he should have listened to her and
admits he needs grief counseling
the movie flashes forward to christmas
where the entire group are present to
celebrate and exchange gifts
marcus and matilde give a menthol or a
french horn that he used to play very
well in the past when he was much
younger otto encourages him and he
starts to play again flawlessly matild's
christmas gift is a new red bicycle at
another house in tallinn the girl from
the opening scene receives matild's blue
bicycle as her gift from the old man
thanks for watching if you've enjoyed
the video and want to see more please
consider subscribing and turning on the
notification bell it helps a lot
thanks and see you again very soon
[Music]